Let's now take a look at how we might create one of these Lego arms it looks like we need to begin with
a cylinder.
So let's go over to the Create tab and let's just create a cylinder now once again we don't need this
many sides so I'll take the vertices down to 12 and I'll make sure that the cap Phil is Triangle fan.
So now let's move it up and put it in place and scale it to the right size that the s key and scale
this down until it's about the right diameter and then go to the scale tool and just drag this out so
we can kind of get a sense of how long it should be something like that.
I'm going to go ahead and press the period key on the number pad and zoom in and let's insert an edge
loop where this elbow would be.
So tab into edit mode and press control are.
And maybe I'll put the elbow a little bit down here it kind of looks like that the upper arm is a little
longer than the lower arm so I'll put that down there and it looks like there's just a slight bend in
the arm so to get that.
What we could do is go into say face mode press control tab press the three key to go into face mode.
I'll hit the Z key to go into wireframe and now I can hold the control key down and click and drag a
lasso around the faces I want.
And there I have them selected.
Now hit the Z key.
Go to the rotate tool and maybe I can just rotate this just a hair.
And while I'm at it I'll pull it forward some as well.
So I get just a little bit of a bend there.
Now here's the interesting part.
How are we going to get this flat piece this curved piece and this flat area.
So it fits right along the torso of the character well to do that.
Let's grab these faces up here so I'll press the A key to de-select the ones I had selected press the
C key to enable the circle select tool.
And now I can scroll the mouse wheel to change the size of the brush and then I can click and select
those faces.
All right click to get out of that tool.
And now what we can do is go to the rotate tool and I'm just going to in global axes I'm just going
to rotate this around the y axis till it's almost flat like that.
That looks terrible I know but bear with me here.
I'll switch back to the move manipulator and just move that over so it's line with the side of our cylinder.
Now I can always hit the one key and the five key to go into orthographic mode just to make sure that
this is lined up as best as I can get it.
All right I'll tumble out of that and press the five key again.
Now we need to get this bulge on the shoulder to do that.
I'll just insert another couple of edge loops with control are.
And this one click and then drag up near that shoulder area and this is going to give us edges that
we can pull out for the shoulder here.
So sometimes you've just got to grab some edges or some vertices and just pull them around.
And that's what I'm going to do here just pull these around until I get the beginning of that shoulder.
Now let's insert another edge loop here and pull it up a bit too.
And now we can use maybe these four edges to pull out a little bit more like this.
So I'm just using this extra geometry to have something to pull on so I can kind of arrange or or mold
the arm the way I need it.
All right so that's looking pretty good.
What let's do is let's add a subdivision surface modifier and see how much it collapses see where we
need to add some edges.
So I'll come over here to the modifiers panel.
And I'll click add a modifier and let's add a subdivision surface.
And then we go.
I'm going to increase the used to.
And I'll also come over here to the Tools panel tab out of edit mode.
So I have access to this smooth shading and I'll click this here.
All right.
So let's go back into edit mode with the tab key.
And now with our cage still visible Let's go ahead and see what we can do by adding some edge loops
here.
So for this all press control are and click and drag down to get that edge a little tighter.
I'd like this elbow to be a little tighter as well so maybe control our insert in Edge loop here.
And maybe one up here as well get that edge a little bit tighter.
Let's take a look at our edge up here I might just take this edge and move it back a little bit.
Let's try that.
I'll also press shift and click of this one and just move these this way just a hair to spread those
out a bit.
And now I'll press control are and insert and loop up here and that's still not tight enough I don't
think it's still not quite what we want.
So what we could do is we could insert an edge loop up here but recall that we can't insert a loop through
a triangle through anything but a quad.
So to do that let's go back to face mode and with our c key our circle select tool click and drag these
faces.
And now let's hit the e key and click and the esky and scale those in and what we've done is effectively
inserted an edge loop in triangles and that tightens up that edge a little better.
All right so all tab out of that mode and here is the beginnings of our arm what we can do now is we
can take this arm and move it over to our character.
We can drag this over and move it down a bit.
It looks like it's a little too long and that's OK for now but we can always do is tab into edit mode
and go into wireframe.
And then what we can do is just press the key for border select drag select the bottom of our arm maybe
just move that up a bit.
We can try that.
I'll hit the Z key again and tab.
Now let's see if we can get this placed on the arm and we can always come in here and go to the rotate
tool and rotate this so it lines up with the arm here like so maybe move it out of here.
Something like that.
Now what I'd like to be able to do is rotate this arm at the shoulder.
But right now if I go to the rotate tool you can see it's going to rotate at the elbow and we don't
want that.
So one thing we can do is move the pivot point up to the center of the shoulder and then the arm can
rotate around that point.
So let me just move this out again I'll just press g and X and drag it out and the x axis and then in
the here I'll tab into edit mode and I'll press control tab and the one key to go to vertex mode.
And if I select that point right there I can snap the cursor to that point by pressing shift s and cursor
to selected.
And now if I tab back into object mode I can move this pivot point to the cursor.
So now all under the Tools tab select set origin and origin 2 3D cursor.
And there we go.
Now we can move this back into place
and when we hit the rotate manipulator we can rotate our arm around that point.
All right so we have one arm.
Now how do we get this arm over to the other side.
Now to mirror this over I'm going to have to undo what I just did with the shoulder because we're going
to have to move this pivot point into the center of the grid and then mirror the arm over along the
x axis and then we can always put the pivot point back.
All right.
So let's try this.
Now I'm going to move the pivot point down to the center by pressing shift s and moving the cursor to
the center of the grid.
And then I'm going to move the origin to the 3D cursor.
Now before I add a mirror modifier to this I want to point out that the rotation over here has values
in it other than zero.
In other words these rotations are not the way they were when this object was first created at 0 0 0.
And these rotations are going to be applied to the mirror when we mirror this object.
So let me show you what I mean if I click the Add modifier menu and click mirror you can see that the
arm is kind of way out here.
We do have the x x is selected and that's correct.
But because of the non uniform nature of our rotations of our transformations here the mirror isn't
doing what we'd hope it would do.
So let me go back and remove this mirror modifier.
And with this arm selected Let's go ahead and apply the rotation of the object to do that I'm going
to press control a that brings up the Apply menu and I'm going to just choose to apply the rotation.
And let's see what that does click rotation.
And then we go now our rotation is all zeroes.
All right so now let's come over here and click add modifier mirror and notice what happened it now
mirrors the way we want it to the way we would expect.
All right so now quickly what let's do is let's move the pivot point back to where it needs to be so
that we can rotate these arms at the shoulder to do that.
We're going to need to apply the mirror modifier click apply.
I then want to separate these pieces out into two separate objects.
Currently it's all one object if I hit the tab key you can see we go into edit mode for both arms.
I need each arm to be its own individual object.
So in edit mode I can press the L key.
I can hover over one of these components and press the L key and that will select all linked components
and now to separate this out into its own object I'll press the peaky.
And this brings up the separate menu and I'll choose to separate it by selection.
So I click selection and there we go.
Now we can see that if we choose this arm individually here it is.
And if we choose this arm individually here it is.
So I'll call this arm underscore our and I'll call this one arm underscore L for left and then we go.
Now we can work individually with these objects.
So now I'm going to select one of these and press shift H.
And that will hide everything.
But this one object Alt-Tab into edit mode select that vertex move the cursor to it with shift s and
press cursor to selected.
And now if I tab back into object mode I can set the origin to the 3D cursor to bring everything else
back.
I'm going to press alt H and I'll select the other arm press shift.
H.
And do the same thing over here so select that point press shift as cursor to selected TAB back into
edit mode and change the origin to the 3D cursor.
Now if I bring everything back again with old age I can select an arm and rotate it.
Around the shoulder and there we go.
So in the next video what let's do is let's work on creating one of these hands.